feat: Allow for the customization of user roles in Che (#2590)
codenvy/che-docs: modules/administration-guide/pages/configuring-user-cluster-roles.adoc

Reviewer: Whatever the final `id=` is in this file, we need to also rename the file name to match it.

> :_content-type: PROCEDURE
> :description: Customizing user roles
> :keywords: administration-guide, user, roles, permissions
> :navtitle: Customizing user roles
> :page-aliases: .:customizing-user-roles.adoc, customizing-user-roles.adoc
> 
> [id="customizing-user-roles"]
> = Customizing user roles

Reviewer: Please considering using `Configuring` over `Customizing`:

And AFAIK, we add `:page-aliases:` values when we rearrange content and rename files, which breaks existing URLs (to avoid search engine search results leading to a 404 page), so no need to worry about it yet here.

```suggestion
:_content-type: PROCEDURE
:description: Configuring cluster roles for {prod-short} users
:keywords: administration-guide, user, roles, permissions
:navtitle: Configuring cluster roles for {prod-short} users
:page-aliases:

[id="configuring-cluster-roles-for-users"]
= Configuring cluster roles for {prod-short} users
```

> You can customize the user roles in {prod-short} by creating new roles.

Reviewer: @tolusha, thank you for clarifying this. I have a suggestion then. WDYT? 
```suggestion
You can grant your {prod-short} users more cluster permissions by adding cluster roles to your {prod-short} users.
```

> You can grant your {prod-short} users more cluster permissions by adding cluster roles to your {prod-short} users.

Reviewer: Just improving my own suggestion that was applied:
```suggestion
You can grant {prod-short} users more cluster permissions by adding cluster roles to those users.
```

.Prerequisites

* An active `{orch-cli}` session with administrative permissions to the destination {orch-name} cluster. See {orch-cli-link}.

.Procedure

. Define the user roles name:
+

> [source,shell,subs="+quotes,macros,attributes"]

Reviewer: Unfortunately, we don't use `shell` in blocks in our docs:
```suggestion
[source,subs="+quotes,macros,attributes"]
```

----
$ USER_ROLES=__<name>__ <1>
----
<1> Unique resource name.

> . Find out the namespace where the {prod-short} operator is deployed:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Find out the namespace where the {prod-short} Operator is deployed:
```

+

> [source,shell,subs="+quotes,macros,attributes"]

Reviewer: Unfortunately, we don't use `shell` in blocks in our docs:
```suggestion
[source,subs="+quotes,macros,attributes"]
```

----
$ OPERATOR_NAMESPACE=$({orch-cli} get pods -l app.kubernetes.io/component={prod-operator} -o jsonpath={".items[0].metadata.namespace"} --all-namespaces)
----

. Create needed roles:
+

> [source,shell,subs="+quotes,macros,attributes"]

Reviewer: Unfortunately, we don't use `shell` in blocks in our docs:
```suggestion
[source,subs="+quotes,macros,attributes"]
```

----
$ {orch-cli} apply -f - <<EOF
kind: ClusterRole
apiVersion: rbac.authorization.k8s.io/v1
metadata:
  name: ${USER_ROLES}
  labels:
    app.kubernetes.io/part-of: che.eclipse.org
rules:
  - verbs:
      - __<verbs>__ <1>
    apiGroups:
      - __<apiGroups>__ <2>
    resources:
      - __<resources>__ <3>
EOF
----

> <1> Verbs is a list of Verbs that apply to ALL the ResourceKinds and AttributeRestrictions contained in this rule. '*' represents all verbs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<1> As `__<verbs>__`,  list all Verbs that apply to all ResourceKinds and AttributeRestrictions contained in this rule. You can use `*` to represent all verbs.
```

> <2> APIGroups is the name of the APIGroup that contains the resources.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<2> As `__<apiGroups>__`, name the APIGroups that contain the resources.
```

> <3> Resources is a list of resources this rule applies to. '*' represents all resources.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<3> As `__<resources>__`, list all resources that this rule applies to. You can use `*` to represent all verbs.
```

> . Delegate the roles to the {prod-short} operator:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Delegate the roles to the {prod-short} Operator:
```

+

> [source,shell,subs="+quotes,macros,attributes"]

Reviewer: Unfortunately, we don't use `shell` in blocks in our docs:
```suggestion
[source,subs="+quotes,macros,attributes"]
```

----
$ {orch-cli} apply -f - <<EOF
kind: ClusterRoleBinding
apiVersion: rbac.authorization.k8s.io/v1
metadata:
  name: ${USER_ROLES}
  labels:
    app.kubernetes.io/part-of: che.eclipse.org
subjects:
  - kind: ServiceAccount
    name: {prod-operator}
    namespace: ${OPERATOR_NAMESPACE}
roleRef:
  apiGroup: rbac.authorization.k8s.io
  kind: ClusterRole
  name: ${USER_ROLES}
EOF

----

> . Configure {prod-short} operator to delegate the roles to the `che` service account:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Configure the {prod-short} Operator to delegate the roles to the `che` service account:
```

+

> [source,shell,subs="+quotes,macros,attributes"]

Reviewer: Unfortunately, we don't use `shell` in blocks in our docs:
```suggestion
[source,subs="+quotes,macros,attributes"]
```

----
$ {orch-cli} patch checluster {prod-checluster} \
  --patch '{"spec": {"components": {"cheServer": {"clusterRoles": ["'${USER_ROLES}'"]}}}}' \
  --type=merge -n {prod-namespace}
----

> . Configure {prod-deployment} server to delegate the roles to a user:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Configure the {prod-deployment} server to delegate the roles to a user:
```

+

> [source,shell,subs="+quotes,macros,attributes"]

Reviewer: Unfortunately, we don't use `shell` in blocks in our docs:
```suggestion
[source,subs="+quotes,macros,attributes"]
```

> . Configure the {prod-deployment} server to delegate the roles to a user:

Reviewer: Should it be `{prod-deployment}` or `{prod-short}` (like in the previous step) here?
```suggestion
. Configure the {prod-short} server to delegate the roles to a user:
```

----
$ {orch-cli} patch checluster {prod-checluster} \
  --patch '{"spec": {"devEnvironments": {"user": {"clusterRoles": ["'${USER_ROLES}'"]}}}}' \
  --type=merge -n {prod-namespace}
----

> Wait until the rollout of {prod-short} server components finishes.
> 
> NOTE: The user has to log out and log in to have the new roles applied.

Reviewer: Both of these lines look like procedure steps to me:
```suggestion
. Wait for the rollout of the {prod-short} server components to be completed.

. Ask the user to log out and log in to have the new roles applied.
```
